# publish-micro-image
Ivan Calandra
2024-01-03

- [<span class="toc-section-number">1</span>
  Introduction](#introduction)
- [<span class="toc-section-number">2</span> References](#references)

**Recommendations on how to publish microscope images**

*The releases are available and citable on Zenodo*  
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.7503328.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7503328)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Introduction

This good-practice document is directed at archaeologists and
paleontologists working with microscopes, but anyone working with
microscope images might learn a few things here.

Microscopes now deliver digital images. “Digital images are data”
([Cromey 2013](#ref-cromey2013)). However, digital images are different
to analog images and to what the observer/analyst sees through the
oculars. Therefore, digital images have specific properties that must be
reported in publications, so that other researchers have the necessary
details to assess the published images and also so that they can
repeat/reproduce these images.

This document is by no means exhaustive and is limited in scope on
purpose, but I hope it will help many archaeologists and
paleontologists.

As a disclaimer, **this document only presents my opinion**, at least
for now. You are free to disagree. Whether you agree or not, I would
really appreciate if you could share your opinion and
[contribute](#how-to-contribute) to the development of this document, so
that it can be accepted by a larger community.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-cromey2013" class="csl-entry">

Cromey, Douglas W. 2013. “Digital Images Are Data: And Should Be Treated
as Such.” In, edited by Douglas J. Taatjes and Jürgen Roth, 1–27.
Methods in Molecular Biology. Totowa, NJ: Humana Press.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-62703-056-4_1>.

</div>

</div>
